README.md, before:

#Final Project of Design an A/B Test Course
##Udacity Data Analyst Nanodegree Project 7

###Experiment Design
####Metric Choice
*Invariant metrics*: Number of Cookies and Number of clicks
I chose the number of cookies and the number of clicks as invariant metrics because these two values will be consistent throughout the experiment. These two values can be calculated before users decide to enroll so they won’t be affected by the experiment.

I didn’t choose the number of user-ids as an invariant metric because this metric is based on whether the user decides to enroll, so it will be affected by the experiment and won’t be consistent.

*Evaluation metrics*: Gross Conversion and Net Conversion
From the experiment, we want to know whether pop-up message asking the possible commitment to the degree affects students to enroll the free trial and make payments. These two metrics provide the values to analyze the results of the experiment. I will calculate if the experiment group has lower Gross Conversion and Net Conversion than the control group.

I didn’t choose retention as an evaluation metric because this value seems to be redundant. This value can be calculated the already chosen evaluation metrics above.

###Measuring Standard Deviation
List the standard deviation of each of your evaluation metrics. (These should be the answers from the "Calculating standard deviation" quiz.)

```
Standard Deviation of Gross Conversion: **0.0202**

Standard Deviation of Net Conversion: **0.0156**
```

**Gross Conversion** and **Net Conversion** have the same number of records and the same denominator, the number of clicks. Since I expected the number of payments would be smaller than the number of enrollments, smaller value of **Net Conversion** is reasonable. 

###Sizing
####Number of Samples vs. Power
####Will you use the Bonferroni correction in your analysis phase?####

No

####The number of pageviews I need to power the experiment: ####

I calculated the pageviews from the calculator from http://www.evanmiller.org/ab-testing/sample-size.html with a baseline conversion rate = 10.931% (Net Conversion rate) and minimum detectable effect = 0.75%. As a result, I got 27,413. However, this number is the size we need to power the experiment for net conversion rate. To find the pageviews we need, we need to take account that among 40,000 people viewing the page, only 3,200 people clicks the “Start free trial”. Thus, 27,413 * 40,000 / 3,200 = 685,325 pageviews are needed.

####Duration vs. Exposure

The fraction of traffic I would divert to this experiment is .5 (from 0 to 1). Given this fraction, I need 685,325 / 40,000 = 34.__ -> 35 days to run the experiment.

*Give your reasoning for the fraction you chose to divert. How risky do you think this experiment would be for Udacity?*

Only 50% will be affected and the change due to the experiment is small, so it won't cause too much trouble in the overall business. Furthermore, 35 days of the experiment is the enough amount of time to really know if the change really affects the users' decisions to take the course.

###Experiment Analysis
####Sanity Checks

```
Number of cookies: Lower bound = 0.4988, Upper bound = 0.5012, Observed = 0.5006: Passed
SE = sqrt( p * (1-p) * (1/Number of Control Pageviews + 1/Number of Experiment Pageviews)
= sqrt( 0.5 * 0.5 * (1/344660 + 1/345543) = 0.0006
Margin of error = 0.0006 * 1.96 = 0.0012
Lower bound = 0.5 – 0.0012 = 0.4988, Upper bound = 0.5 + 0.0012 = 0.5012
Observed = 345543 / (345543 + 344660) = 0.5006

Number of clicks: Lower bound = 0.4959, Upper bound = 0.5041, Observed = 0.5005: Passed
SE = sqrt( p * (1-p) * (1/Number of Control Clicks + 1/Number of Experiment Clicks)
= sqrt( 0.5 * 0.5 * (1/28325 + 1/28378) = 0.0021
Margin of error = 0.0021 * 1.96 = 0.0041
Lower bound = 0.5 – 0.0041 = 0.4959, Upper bound = 0.5 + 0.0041 = 0.5041
Observed = 28378 / (28378 + 28325) = 0.5005
```

###Result Analysis
####Effect Size Tests
For each of your evaluation metrics, give a 95% confidence interval around the difference between the experiment and control groups. Indicate whether each metric is statistically and practically significant. (These should be the answers from the "Effect Size Tests" quiz.)

```
*Gross Conversion*: Lower bound = -0.0291, Upper bound = -0.0120
	Statistical Significance: Yes, Practical Significance: Yes

*Net Conversion*: Lower bound = -0.0116, Upper bound = 0.0019
	Statistical Significance: No, Practical Significance: No
```

####Sign Tests

Gross Conversion: p-value = 0.0026, Statistical Significance = Yes
Net Conversion: p-value = 0.6776, Statistical Significance = No

####Summary
*State whether you used the Bonferroni correction, and explain why or why not. If there are any discrepancies between the effect size hypothesis tests and the sign tests, describe the discrepancy and why you think it arose.*

I didn’t use Bonferroni correction because the metrics are not independent.

####Recommendation
Make a recommendation and briefly describe your reasoning.


###Follow-Up Experiment
Give a high-level description of the follow up experiment you would run, what your hypothesis would be, what metrics you would want to measure, what your unit of diversion would be, and your reasoning for these choices.

Commit message:

first draft will be submitted

README.md, after:

#Final Project of Design an A/B Test Course
##Udacity Data Analyst Nanodegree Project 7

###Experiment Design
####Metric Choice
*Invariant metrics*: Number of Cookies and Number of clicks
I chose the number of cookies and the number of clicks as invariant metrics because these two values will be consistent throughout the experiment. These two values can be calculated before users decide to enroll so they won’t be affected by the experiment.

I didn’t choose the number of user-ids as an invariant metric because this metric is based on whether the user decides to enroll, so it will be affected by the experiment and won’t be consistent.

*Evaluation metrics*: Gross Conversion and Net Conversion
From the experiment, we want to know whether pop-up message asking the possible commitment to the degree affects students to enroll the free trial and make payments. These two metrics provide the values to analyze the results of the experiment. I will calculate if the experiment group has lower Gross Conversion and Net Conversion than the control group.

I didn’t choose retention as an evaluation metric because this value seems to be redundant. This value can be calculated the already chosen evaluation metrics above.

###Measuring Standard Deviation
List the standard deviation of each of your evaluation metrics. (These should be the answers from the "Calculating standard deviation" quiz.)

```
Standard Deviation of Gross Conversion: **0.0202**

Standard Deviation of Net Conversion: **0.0156**
```

**Gross Conversion** and **Net Conversion** have the same number of records and the same denominator, the number of clicks. Since I expected the number of payments would be smaller than the number of enrollments, smaller value of **Net Conversion** is reasonable. 

###Sizing
####Number of Samples vs. Power
####Will you use the Bonferroni correction in your analysis phase?####

No

####The number of pageviews I need to power the experiment: ####

I calculated the pageviews from the calculator from http://www.evanmiller.org/ab-testing/sample-size.html with a baseline conversion rate = 10.931% (Net Conversion rate) and minimum detectable effect = 0.75%. As a result, I got 27,413. However, this number is the size we need to power the experiment for net conversion rate. To find the pageviews we need, we need to take account that among 40,000 people viewing the page, only 3,200 people clicks the “Start free trial”. Thus, 27,413 * 40,000 / 3,200 = 685,325 pageviews are needed.

####Duration vs. Exposure

The fraction of traffic I would divert to this experiment is .5 (from 0 to 1). Given this fraction, I need 685,325 / 40,000 = 34.__ -> 35 days to run the experiment.

*Give your reasoning for the fraction you chose to divert. How risky do you think this experiment would be for Udacity?*

Only 50% will be affected and the change due to the experiment is small, so it won't cause too much trouble in the overall business. Furthermore, 35 days of the experiment is the enough amount of time to really know if the change really affects the users' decisions to take the course.

###Experiment Analysis
####Sanity Checks

```
Number of cookies: Lower bound = 0.4988, Upper bound = 0.5012, Observed = 0.5006: Passed
SE = sqrt( p * (1-p) * (1/Number of Control Pageviews + 1/Number of Experiment Pageviews)
= sqrt( 0.5 * 0.5 * (1/344660 + 1/345543) = 0.0006
Margin of error = 0.0006 * 1.96 = 0.0012
Lower bound = 0.5 – 0.0012 = 0.4988, Upper bound = 0.5 + 0.0012 = 0.5012
Observed = 345543 / (345543 + 344660) = 0.5006

Number of clicks: Lower bound = 0.4959, Upper bound = 0.5041, Observed = 0.5005: Passed
SE = sqrt( p * (1-p) * (1/Number of Control Clicks + 1/Number of Experiment Clicks)
= sqrt( 0.5 * 0.5 * (1/28325 + 1/28378) = 0.0021
Margin of error = 0.0021 * 1.96 = 0.0041
Lower bound = 0.5 – 0.0041 = 0.4959, Upper bound = 0.5 + 0.0041 = 0.5041
Observed = 28378 / (28378 + 28325) = 0.5005
```

###Result Analysis
####Effect Size Tests
For each of your evaluation metrics, give a 95% confidence interval around the difference between the experiment and control groups. Indicate whether each metric is statistically and practically significant. (These should be the answers from the "Effect Size Tests" quiz.)

```
Gross Conversion: Lower bound = -0.0291, Upper bound = -0.0120
	Statistical Significance: Yes, Practical Significance: Yes

Net Conversion: Lower bound = -0.0116, Upper bound = 0.0019
	Statistical Significance: No, Practical Significance: No
```

####Sign Tests

```
Gross Conversion: p-value = 0.0026, Statistical Significance = Yes
Net Conversion: p-value = 0.6776, Statistical Significance = No
```

####Summary
*State whether you used the Bonferroni correction, and explain why or why not. If there are any discrepancies between the effect size hypothesis tests and the sign tests, describe the discrepancy and why you think it arose.*

I didn’t use Bonferroni correction because the metrics are not independent.

Both effect size tests and sign tests result in having statistical significance in **Gross Conversion** but no statistical significance in **Net Conversion**. This means that although the experiment affects the users' decision to enroll the online courses but it didn't affect much to the enrolled users to pay the courses.

####Recommendation
Make a recommendation and briefly describe your reasoning.

What we want to acheive to have more students pay for the classes and finish their classes. What I really want to the is the ratio of the number of students finishing the courses to the number of students paying the courses. From the tests we performed the above, the pop up message certainly filtered the students who can't spend more than 5 hours to study for the online courses. Although the message didn't affect the **Net Conversion** significantly, it is possible that, among those who paid the courses, there are more enthusiastic students who will finish the courses.

###Follow-Up Experiment
Give a high-level description of the follow up experiment you would run, what your hypothesis would be, what metrics you would want to measure, what your unit of diversion would be, and your reasoning for these choices.

I will perform the follow up experiment on those who paid the courses and see their activities on the Udacity website. So the hypothesis will be 

```
The users who paid the courses after they passed the 5 hour pop-up message have higher probability of finishing the courses than those who paid the courses without the pop-up message.
``` 

Since I am performing an experiment on users who paid, I can use **use-id** as an unit of diversion. I will use the number of clicks and the number of cookies as invariant metrics for the same reason they are used in the experiment above. And I will use **click-through-probability** on **next lesson** button on each lesson as an evaluation metric. It is difficult to evaluate the users' probability of finishing the courses because it takes very long time for people to finish them (it may take more than a year). However, by looking at the **click-through-probability** of users can give us some insights that who are studying more. And another good evaluation invariant to use is **the rate of people who paid the second payment after 30 days of the first payment**. This value can imply users' willingness to finish the courses.
